---
layout: post
title: Prologue 
---
Isaac felt the sweat dripping down his face as he trudged through the thick brush on the edge of the jungle. It wasn't an unwelcome sensation, the cool liquid soaking into his loose shirt and shorts, but it did have its downsides. Every couple of minutes a drop would form on the edge of his brow, hanging there until it succumbed to its own gathering weight and dripped down his chest. Whenever he looked up to check for small dangerous animals, or to check the position of the sun and make sure he wasn't running late, he was gambling that the drop on his brow wouldn't fall into his eye. He seemed to have inherited his father's luck, and nearly every time he looked up, he would feel the sting of salt-laced sweat dripping into his eye. He knew his eyes were going to be a light red by the time he got to his destination and he knew his grandfather would be quick to criticize.

That wasn't the only thing he was worried about. He was also worried that he was being followed by some of his classmates, who had grown increasingly curious about his life. He had always been a novelty to them, the son of a war hero and grandson of a disgraced general. He couldn't let anyone, especially anyone at his school, know where he was going today. It was a trek that he had been making weekly for the better part of a year. The fact that he had managed to sneak along the jungle for so long without getting caught had given him some comfort and that put his worries about his classmates at the back of his head. He spent most of his attention on the problems directly in front of him: The posionous frogs that tended to fall from the canopy, and impressing his control of all things upon his grandfather, who was slightly mad. 

Most of his classmates thought he hated his grandfather. This was probably because most of them hated his grandfather. It was true, to a certain extent, that Isaac disliked his grandfather, but to call it hatred was overselling it. His classmates hated his grandfather because of the terrible crime that he had committed, the betrayal that had caused the death of the city's most important hero. Isaac's great shame was that he actually prefered the calculating madness of his grandfather to the foolhardy pride of his father, even before he had gone and gotten himself killed in that ill fated battle. 

Soon enough Isaac found himself in that familiar clearing. It had originally been a small watering hole for local animals, with the ground around the pond cleared by their meandering. When Isaac's grandfather had been exiled from the city proper, the council hadn't thought of where to put him. His grandfather acted quickly, and had his few loyal supporters clear him out this space. Hardly anyone knew about this clearing, and fewer people even cared. It had grown from its original size, and now the clearing was large enough to encompass a small hut and garden. Before he went inside, Isaac took a moment to clean his face at the pond. He had hoped to see his reflection, the pond was murky and unreflective, and the lowering sun made it so he could only make out the skittering of the small insects along the top of the water. He shrugged, ran a hand through his wet hair to attempt to bring it back into control, and walked towards his grandfather's place of exile. 

Isaac remembered when he was growing up that his grandfather lived in a palace. It wasn't really a palace, per se, but it was one of the most magnificent apartments in the city. Located right next to the central city square, it was one of the few buildings in the city that was old enough to be made of the large stone bricks that were hallmarks of a bygone era. Each room had enormous windows with reed screens that could be lowered to provide privacy and keep the bugs out in the humid evenings. Isaac remembered the feelings of pride swelling in his chest as he walked down the path towards the entrance to his grandfather's apartment and the way his breath was swept away by the thick wooden door that couldn't be found anywhere else on the island. Entering his grandfather's current residence evoked almost the opposite feelings. There was shame at seeing the squalor his grandfather had fallen into and fear that he would be caught visiting one of the most hated men on the island. 

Once inside, Isaac smelled the familiar mustiness of papers, and looked at the walls. Originally, they had been made of the wood common to the jungle, dried in the sun with a naturally deep brown. Now they were covered in papers of all colors and sizes. Looking over the wall, Isaac tried to spot which papers were new, using the countless hours he spent caring for his aging relative. There, on the right hand side, he found this week's first addition. It was from the stack of paper he had brought his grandfather last week, surplus from his school. It was cream colored, and had been filled in with the unintelligible scribbles that he had stopped trying to interpret. It was full of large sweeping circles and tight script, that could've been in the old writing, but looked wrong. Isaac sighed and walked towards the fire place, which was still burning. At least his grandfather remembered to keep the fire burning, even if he couldn't take care of anything else. 

Isaac put his bag on the floor and was reaching into it to pull out the salted fish he had brought for dinner when he felt a cold hand grip his shoulder. It had an almost scaly texture to it and it was far colder than any other human Isaac had ever touched. He struggled to supress an involuntary shudder and closed his eyes to focus. His Grandfather barely seemed human these days. His face, which had once been full and proud, had become sunken and waxy. His hair had grown disorderly and long, a far cry from the proud warrior's tail he used to groom. Isaac did not want to turn around and see his grandfathers worst transformation. His eyes, which had never been caring, had become glassy and sharp. They had been stoic in the past, but now they were probing and erratic. Isaac could pretend his grandfather was sane, or at least on the edge of sanity, until he looked into those dark pits. When he forced himself to turn around and see them, he knew that his grandfather was truly insane. 

"Jacob, I have something to discuss with you." Isaac felt the shudder return to his spine but hid it with a carefully controlled nod. Jacob was his father, the one his grandfather had so famously gotten killed. "I've figured it out! I had done my calculations wrong, the battle was ill timed." Isaac didn't want to hear anymore of these mad musings, especially with his grandfather so far from lucidity as to call him by his father's name. Still, that sentence was intriguing. His grandfather never talked about the battle. So instead of turning around back to the food he had brought, Isaac spoke slowly. "What do you mean, the wrong date?" His grandfather was holding a small journal in his hand, and he began shaking it emphatically. "We were years too early! I redid the numbers, and now I know - we needed to be there next month!" Isaac looked his grandfather up and down, and wondered what possibly could've been on that distant island next month.
