The night air felt muggy on Eliza's skin as she trudged through the dense underbrush. Her family lived near the edge of town, in what was the poor district of an already poor island. Ages bygone had dealt with the violent growth of plants by hiring an army of gardeners and groundskeepers to push the growth back to the edge of the forest, if not further. Her island didn't have the population or the money for something like that anymore. All the people they had were dedicated to the survival of the dwindling population with no spare moments. Eliza had found the nights much more pleasant on the island than the days because of this. During the days she would draw spiteful glares from the other islanders, all of whom resented her for not being in a family or wasting her days away at some important but ultimately unsatisfying job. Eliza had felt the hot stares on her neck every day since she was sixteen, when most of the girls on her island had been betrothed to a directionless man who worked with his hands. She had decided from a young age that no one on this island would make her happy, and she had somehow convinced her parents to agree with her. So she walked around at night, away from the prying eyes. 

The town itself took on an ethereal quality in the dark, almost like an alter ego. The town square that was so full of merchants and women and screaming children during the day was totally empty at night, with just small pieces of trash blowing in the small breeze to keep her company. The stone road that divided the town cleanly in two was cool to her feet, a marked difference from hot way they stuck to your feet at the height of the midday sun. Walking down the familiar and yet different path, Eliza tried to picture what all the people who would be here during the day looked like. On this corner was the man selling bread, small little burnt loaves made from the poor quality grain they subsisted on. On that corner was the policeman watching for thieves, though there never were any. On an island this small, the social pressure kept most people from so much as stepping out of line, much less committing any crime. Except for her, of course, and her crimes were noble. 

There, on the street corner in front of her, she recognized where one particular stall would have been set up during the day. It was the oddest stall of them all, selling things that no one expected. Some days it was filled to the brim with fresh fruit, picked that morning in the forest. Other days it was full of antique odds and ends that seemed to have been scrounged up from around the town, cleaned, fixed up, and then marked for sale. It was where Eliza had gotten her impossibly rare journal. The stand was run by the most mysterious man on the island. He didn't seem to have any history there, as no one could remember seeing him before that first day in the market square. Eliza remembered it well, this disheveled man walking in reeking of the aromatics that grew in the undergrowth of the jungle. He had brought with him a canvas bag, and he was wearing the oddest clothing. Eliza had been much younger at the time, and she remembered watching him walk towards the only open space in the square. He hadn't seemed confused at all by his surroundings, nor did he seem unfamiliar. Instead he just sat on the ground, and began to pull things out of his bag. Eliza was out shopping with her mother, for this was back when she made attempts at being a useful member of society. She stood a fair distance away from the man, not wanting people to associate her with him. As he pulled things out of his bag and put them on the ground in front of him, Eliza couldn't help but be curious. Everything he pulled out seemed to be well cared for and new. Letting her curiousity get the better of her, she walked over to him and started looking at the things on the grund. He was incredibly calm and precise, and handled each item with care. Only after he had pulled everything out did he acknowledge Eliza. He gestured to the items in front of him, prompting her to inspect them. It was odd that he didn't say anything. Most traders had a song and dance they would go through trying to sell you something. He was oddly quiet. 

The items didn't seeme exactly interesting to Eliza, at first. There was some strange looking cuttlery, various dishes, and a couple of pieces of cloth, nothing of particular note. When Eliza picked up the journal, she could feel the eyes bulging out of her head. She recognized the shape from school, where the teachers taught of ancient tomes full of yellow paper. This journal had fresh paper in it, and it seemed to be much prettier than what the teachers used. She quickly knew that this would've been incredibly valuable, so she held it up to the old man. "What do you want for this?" Eliza tried her best to hide the excitement in her voice, but she felt like she did a poor job of it. The man looked at her and tried talking in a language she had never heard. After a few moments he seemed to come to his senses and spoke slowly a word she understood. "Food." Eliza ran up to her mother, and begged for some food to give to the poor old man. Her mother always found extra food to give to the poor in the village, so she handed Eliza a piece of fruit to give to him. Eliza quickly returned to the old man, and gave him the item. The old man looked nearly shocked at her kindness, grabbing the item greedily. Eliza picked up the notebook as quietly as she could, and ran back towards her mother. By the time she joined her mother, she had hidden what would prove to be her most valuable possession under her shirt, not realizing then just how important the notebook would become.    
