---
layout: post
title: One
---
Eliza lay in bed, listening to God. It was a low and slow hum, interspersed with the sharp tones that identified the Seventh. She was waiting patiently for the sounds that her parents were asleep, the telltale rustling of a curtain as they went into their room. It wasn't that she wanted to decieve them, exactly, but that they wouldn't understand if she tried to explain to them what she was doing. Nobody on their island would understand. 

Eliza lived on one of the smaller islands that seemed to be perpetually outlying. By her rough estimates, there were only about one thousand people living their, and it made everything feel uncomfortably small. There was plenty of space for all those people on the island, but all the sane ones stayed close together and out of the thick dangers in the jungle. Her island was so small it didn't have anyone to beat back the encroaching plant growth full time, and instead they had to rely on farmers and policeman clearing what they could on the weekends. The jungle was relentless, and it barely gave them enough space to live, much less space to expand, and it seemed like her island would always be small and unimportant. 

Eliza heard the rustling she was expecting, and yet she couldn't stop herself from holding her breath. This had to be the tenth time she snuck out late at night, but it didn't stop her from feeling nervous and guilty. Her parents entrusted her with so much and barely asked anything of her, and yet here she was defying their one wish. "Don't go out at night - it isn't safe for a girl like you." It didn't really seem fair to call her a girl, after all, since she had just finished her twenty second year. There were girls younger than her who were already mothers, and others who had enlisted to fight in wars on far away islands. Eliza desperately wanted to tell her parents about the work she was doing, but she didn't think she knew how to break it to them that she had been sneaking out several times a week. 

Once she was absolutely sure the sounds had died down, Eliza lifted her small frame off of the matress. When she didn't make a single sound putting on her sandals, she knew that she had become an old hat at this, and felt the guilt rise in her throat. Doing her best to shake it off, she reached into her mattress, and pulled out her prize possession. It was wrapped in a dirty cloth to disguise its true value, but when Eliza pulled it out she couldn't help but marvel at its value. It was a leatherbound journal, filled with the highest quality paper she had ever seen. Paper itself was a luxury most didn't have access to, but paper of this quality was unheard of, and made this by far the most expensive thing either she or her parents owned. Eliza had traded it off of an unsuspecting old man from the market who seemed confused. She had almost felt bad taking it from him, but she couldn't help herself, especially when all he was asking for was a meal. She gave him the lunch her mother had packed, and had walked away lifetimes richer. She carefully opened the pages and turned them one by one. Each page was filled with her tight script and carefully drawn diagrams. Her notes. Her future. Her greatest secret. 
