The night air felt muggy on Eliza's skin as she trudged through the dense underbrush. Her family lived near the edge of town, in what was the poor district of an already poor island. Ages bygone had dealt with the violent growth of plants by hiring an army of gardeners and groundskeepers to push the growth back to the edge of the forest, if not further. Her island didn't have the population or the money for something like that anymore. All the people they had were dedicated to the survival of the dwindling population with no spare moments. Eliza had found the nights much more pleasant on the island than the days because of this. During the days she would draw spiteful glares from the other islanders, all of whom resented her for not being in a family or wasting her days away at some important but ultimately unsatisfying job. Eliza had felt the hot stares on her neck every day since she was sixteen, when most of the girls on her island had been betrothed to a directionless man who worked with his hands. She had decided from a young age that no one on this island would make her happy, and she had somehow convinced her parents to agree with her. So she walked around at night, away from the prying eyes. 

The town itself took on an ethereal quality in the dark, almost like an alter ego. The town square that was so full of merchants and women and screaming children during the day was totally empty at night, with just small pieces of trash blowing in the small breeze to keep her company. The stone road that divided the town cleanly in two was cool to her feet, a marked difference from hot way they stuck to your feet at the height of the midday sun. Walking down the familiar and yet different path, Eliza tried to picture what all the people who would be here during the day looked like. On this corner was the man selling bread, small little burnt loaves made from the poor quality grain they subsisted on. On that corner was the policeman watching for thieves, though there never were any. On an island this small, the social pressure kept most people from so much as stepping out of line, much less committing any crime. Except for her, of course, and her crimes were noble. 
