The town didn't have much in the way of decoration because the people were far more pragmatic than that. They would much rather spend their time and effort clearing the forest or building a new building than celebrating some far of king or religious icon. It only had a single public statue. The statue was old - so old that most people didn't know who it was supposed to represent. Some people thought it was a local prophet who had predicted great feats, while others said it was a general who enacted feats through his iron will. Eliza knew that while close, all of these were guesses were wrong. She had found a brief history of the statue while she was exploring the archives, as she edged closer and closer towards the dusty books written in a language she couldn't understand. It went like this: 

Long ago the islands were filled with many great cultures. There were the Day Night people Seumulilgop, where families were only together for one hour each day. There were the warriors of Swinset, who refused to drink anything but blood. The most terrifying, however, were the scholars of Yesunnet. They studied forbidden things, and used dark power to build a massive empire that stretched across the islands. They enslaved whereever they went, and no one could stop the spread of their corruption. Searching for more power, their most brilliant scientist led them astray with a discovery that not only destroyed their island but also created disaster through out the entire island. The statue was one of many placed all over the islands, to remind men of the evils of seeking too much power.

Eliza did not really think the statues had done much in curbing the ambition of men.   
